---
layout: post
title: Lessons learned from the Thales student innovation championship
category: blog
tags: Hackathon, AI
---

At the start of my MDS program, our program director, Milad Maymay informed us about a Artificial Intelligence competition - the Thales student innovation championship. The competition was open to third and fourth undergraduate students, as well as graduate level students across Canada. Our team, Sigma (Bailey Lei, Aditya Sharma, Kiana Yau), was one of the top eight out of 52 teams selected to present in the final round of the Thales Student Innovation Championship at CortAIx in Montreal, Canada.

While we did not end up winning the competition, it was nonetheless one of the most rewarding experiences I have ever had. Unlike the Citadel Datathon I competed at the University of Waterloo previously, we received a lot of feedbacks from the judges during the networking event they hosted. Looking back, I realized that I applied a lot of the valuable feedback that I received which helped me with winning the EasyMarkit AI hackathon and the Kabam Varsity Challenge.

##### Two key lessons I learned:


##### Know your audience

Once again, I can’t stress this enough, but know your audience. The panel of judges for the final presentation came from diverse backgrounds. In fact, there were eight judges from three different companies. Our presentation focused on the technicality aspect and it turned out the majority of the judges all had a strong foundation in machine learning already. The judges were not interested in the technicality aspect, but more so on our ability to tell a story - a story that provided a narrative for a business solution, which brings me to my next point of focusing on a specific business solution


##### Focus on a specific business solution

Despite our team having a relatively stronger background in AI, the solution we proposed was too ambitious. We were trying to do everything and wanted to address every aspect of the business problem. This was pretty common with other finalists as well, except for the winning team, who focussed on one key aspect of the business problem. During the networking event, one of the judges, Wen Ge, gave our team a valuable advice: Don’t focus on trying to do everything. It is impossible to address every aspect of a business problem. Rather, focus on one key area of the business problem.

Overall, this competition was truly a memorable one, especially since this was my first time visiting Montreal. The collection of public art within the city truly enriches the cultural experience.  I would like to say a big thank you to Thales for doing such an awesome job at hosting and organizing the competition. Also, I would like to thank the UBC MDS program for subsidizing our travel cost for this event and our UBC MDS Option Co-Director, Mike Gelbart, for providing valuable feedback on our presentation slides.
